README.md, before:

[![Latest Version]][crates.io] ![Rustc Version nightly]

[Latest Version]: https://img.shields.io/crates/v/staticvec.svg
[crates.io]: https://crates.io/crates/staticvec
[Rustc Version nightly]: https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-nightly-lightgray.svg
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/slightlyoutofphase/staticvec.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/slightlyoutofphase/staticvec)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/qb40my4v3rr63st2/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/slightlyoutofphase/staticvec/branch/master)

Implements a fixed-capacity stack-allocated Vec alternative backed by an array, using const generics.

Note: the word "static" here is meant by the traditional definition of "unchanging" / "not dynamic" etc.

This crate does **not** use literal `static` variables for anything (but does provide multiple ways
to instantiate a `StaticVec` **as** a `static` or `const` variable if desired).

Fully `#![no_std]` compatible (with almost no loss of functionality) by setting
`default-features = false` for the `staticvec` dependency in your `Cargo.toml`.

Optional support for serialization and deserialization of the `StaticVec` struct
via `serde` is available by activating the `serde_support` crate feature.

`StaticVec` also implements both `Deref` and `DerefMut` to `[T]`, meaning that all existing slice
methods are accessible through instances of it and that references to it can be used in contexts
where `[T]` is expected.

As of version 0.8.0, this crate additionally provides a fixed-capacity `StaticString` struct, which is built
around an instance of `StaticVec<u8, N>`.

As of version 0.8.5, a fixed-capacity `StaticHeap` struct based on the standard library `BinaryHeap` and built
around an instance of `StaticVec<T, N>` has been added as well.

Contributions/suggestions/etc. very welcome!

**Minimum supported Rust version:** due to the use of const generics, this is a nightly-only crate at the moment.

A basic usage example:

```rust
use staticvec::{staticvec, StaticVec};

fn main() {
  let mut v = StaticVec::<usize, 64>::new();
  for i in 0..v.capacity() {
    v.push(i);
  }
  for i in &v {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  v.clear();
  v.insert(0, 47);
  v.insert(1, 48);
  v.insert(2, 49);
  v.insert(v.len() - 1, 50);
  v.insert(v.len() - 2, 51);
  v.insert(v.len() - 3, 52);
  for i in &v {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  for i in &v.reversed().drain(2..4) {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  while v.is_not_empty() {
    println!("{}", v.remove(0));
  }
  for f in staticvec![12.0, 14.0, 15.0, 16.0].iter().skip(2) {
    println!("{}", f);
  }
  for i in staticvec![
    staticvec![14, 12, 10].sorted(),
    staticvec![20, 18, 16].reversed(),
    staticvec![26, 24, 22].sorted(),
    staticvec![32, 30, 28].reversed(),
  ]
  .iter()
  .flatten()
  .collect::<StaticVec<usize, 12>>()
  .iter() {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  // The type parameter is inferred as `StaticVec<usize, 8>`.
  let filled = StaticVec::<_, 128>::filled_with_by_index(|i| {
    staticvec![
      i + 1,
      i + 2,
      i + 3,
      i + 4,
    ]
    .intersperse((i + 4) * 4)
  });
  println!("{:?}", filled);
}
```

**License:**

Licensed under either the <a href="LICENSE-MIT">MIT license</a> or version 2.0 of the <a href="LICENSE-APACHE">Apache License</a>. Your choice as to which!
Any source code contributions will be dual-licensed in the same fashion.

Commit message:

Straight-up remove (for now!) six cool functions that worked flawlessly as written for months because I literally have no choice

README.md, after:

[![Latest Version]][crates.io] ![Rustc Version nightly]

[Latest Version]: https://img.shields.io/crates/v/staticvec.svg
[crates.io]: https://crates.io/crates/staticvec
[Rustc Version nightly]: https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-nightly-lightgray.svg
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/slightlyoutofphase/staticvec.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/slightlyoutofphase/staticvec)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/qb40my4v3rr63st2/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/slightlyoutofphase/staticvec/branch/master)

**Important note regarding version 0.10.0 of this crate:**

It exists *solely* because of the fact that the following list of functions:

- `concat`
- `concat_clone`
- `intersperse`
- `intersperse_clone`
- `symmetric_difference`
- `union`

were broken in a way by `rust-lang` PR #70107 that simply cannot be worked around at this time. If you rely on anything
of those functions, please continue using version 0.9.3 with a released-prior-to-June-3 copy of the nightly compiler. Again,
that would still be the latest version of this crate if it were the case that I were able to do something to fix the compilation error,
but unfortunately that simply is not the case right now.

Implements a fixed-capacity stack-allocated Vec alternative backed by an array, using const generics.

Note: the word "static" here is meant by the traditional definition of "unchanging" / "not dynamic" etc.

This crate does **not** use literal `static` variables for anything (but does provide multiple ways
to instantiate a `StaticVec` **as** a `static` or `const` variable if desired).

Fully `#![no_std]` compatible (with almost no loss of functionality) by setting
`default-features = false` for the `staticvec` dependency in your `Cargo.toml`.

Optional support for serialization and deserialization of the `StaticVec` struct
via `serde` is available by activating the `serde_support` crate feature.

`StaticVec` also implements both `Deref` and `DerefMut` to `[T]`, meaning that all existing slice
methods are accessible through instances of it and that references to it can be used in contexts
where `[T]` is expected.

As of version 0.8.0, this crate additionally provides a fixed-capacity `StaticString` struct, which is built
around an instance of `StaticVec<u8, N>`.

As of version 0.8.5, a fixed-capacity `StaticHeap` struct based on the standard library `BinaryHeap` and built
around an instance of `StaticVec<T, N>` has been added as well.

Contributions/suggestions/etc. very welcome!

**Minimum supported Rust version:** due to the use of const generics, this is a nightly-only crate at the moment.

A basic usage example:

```rust
use staticvec::{staticvec, StaticVec};

fn main() {
  let mut v = StaticVec::<usize, 64>::new();
  for i in 0..v.capacity() {
    v.push(i);
  }
  for i in &v {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  v.clear();
  v.insert(0, 47);
  v.insert(1, 48);
  v.insert(2, 49);
  v.insert(v.len() - 1, 50);
  v.insert(v.len() - 2, 51);
  v.insert(v.len() - 3, 52);
  for i in &v {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  for i in &v.reversed().drain(2..4) {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
  while v.is_not_empty() {
    println!("{}", v.remove(0));
  }
  for f in staticvec![12.0, 14.0, 15.0, 16.0].iter().skip(2) {
    println!("{}", f);
  }
  for i in staticvec![
    staticvec![14, 12, 10].sorted(),
    staticvec![20, 18, 16].reversed(),
    staticvec![26, 24, 22].sorted(),
    staticvec![32, 30, 28].reversed(),
  ]
  .iter()
  .flatten()
  .collect::<StaticVec<usize, 12>>()
  .iter() {
    println!("{}", i);
  }
}
```

**License:**

Licensed under either the <a href="LICENSE-MIT">MIT license</a> or version 2.0 of the <a href="LICENSE-APACHE">Apache License</a>. Your choice as to which!
Any source code contributions will be dual-licensed in the same fashion.
